Attributes of NumPy arrays
Now that you know how to create a NumPy array, let us look at the most essential features of one and discuss them in details. We will be taking two arrays to illustrate the features

a = np.array([1,2,3,4])
b = np.array([[1,2,3,4], [5,6,7,8]])
The attributes of both the arrays a and b are discussed below:

Shape

It returns a tuple consisting of array dimensions i.e. tells us how many items are present in each dimension and can be found using the .shape attribute of the ndarray object.

print('The shape of the array a is ', a.shape)
print('The shape of the array b is ', b.shape)
Output

'The shape of the array a is (4,)'
'The shape of the array b is (2,4)'
Note that the 1-D array a has shape of (4, ) and not (4, 1)

Dimensions

It gives the number of dimensions and can be found using the .ndim attribute of ndarray object.

print('The dimensions of array a is ', a.ndim)
print('The dimensions of array b is ', b.ndim)
Output

'The dimensions of array a is 1'
'The dimensions of array b is 2'
Size

It tells the total number of items in the array as a whole. More precisely it is the product of the elements of the .shape attribute of the array.

print('The size of the array a is ', a.size)
print('The size of the array b is ', b.size)
Output

'The shape of the array a is 4'
'The shape of the array b is 8'
Datatype

As the name suggests, it informs about the type of data in the array. Since a NumPy array consists of homogeneous data only, you will get only a single dtype.

print('The datatype of the array a is ', a.dtype)
print('The datatype of the array b is ', b.dtype)
Output

'The datatype of the array a is int64'
'The datatype of the array b is int64'
NumPy offers support to a much greater variety of numerical types than base Python does like int8, int16, float32, float16, bool_, complex_ etc.

Itemsize

It represents the number of bytes in each element of the array.

print('The number of bytes in each element of the array a is  ', a.itemsize)
print('The number of bytes in each element of the array b is ', b.itemsize)
Output

'The number of bytes in each element of the array a is 8'
'The number of bytes in each element of the array b is 8'
With the help of the following attributes you can get the necessary information of the NumPy array as a whole along with its elements.
